The goal of these specifications is to define the possible terms of a [[Contracts|contract]] using an [[XML]] schema

Currently, the [[SXP Contract|SXP Contract Specification Schema]] is based in Legal XML eContracts (see below). This page is for presenting the different XML existing formats and discussing the problematic associated to the specification of contracts.

== Existing XML standards for describing contracts ==

* '''Legal XML eContracts (OASIS Standard).''' 
Legal XML is an XML schema for describing the generic structure of a wide range of contract documents.

This standard uses basic building blocks called ''items'', for the description of the classical notions of clauses or sections. It also uses blocks called ''party'', ''date'', ''party-signature''. Then it encloses these informations under the tags ''contract-front'', ''body'' and ''back'', emulating the structure of a real paper-based contract.

More detailed description at the [http://docs.oasis-open.org/legalxml-econtracts/CS01/legalxml-econtracts-specification-1.0.pdf eContracts Specification 1.0].

* '''Electronic Business using eXtensible Markup Language (ebXML).''' 
ebXML is a family of XML standards that provides an infrastructure for electronic bussiness. It is also developed by OASIS.

In ebXML, contracts are not defined in a single document — instead , the trading partners may form a contract by exchanging requesting documents constituting ''binding offers'', and responding documents constituting ''binding acceptances'', resulting in a demonstrably successful or failed negotiation of the business terms proposed in the offer.

For more information, read the [http://ebxml.org/specs/bpPATT.pdf E-Commerce Patterns v1.0] Technichal Report, from the ebXML specification.

* '''Financial Product Markup Language (FpML).'''
FpML is a XML standard for describing OTC derivatives.

*'''eLEGAL.'''
eLEGAL defines a framework for legal conditions and contracts regarding the use of ICT in project business.

== Adopting an XML standard for SXP ==

As said above, the current version of SXP Contract Specification is an extension of Legal XML Contract. The reason is that this standard is more flexible and allows us to define contracts forcing the user to fill out the obligatory clauses, while he can add more clauses if necessary.

Trying to use the ebXML definitions of contract could be less suitable, unless we adopted the whole ebXML specification for the interchange. Still, ebXML specification is intended to be used in normal buy/sell actions, not interchanges as we want in SXP.

== Further reading ==

*[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1139&context=lsfp Language, Deals and Standards: The Future of XML Contracts ]  [Cunningham 2006]

*[http://www.adaptivity.nl/articles/E-contracting.pdf E-contracting Challenges ]  [Xu, de Vrieze]

== External links ==

* [https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=legalxml-econtracts OASIS Legal XML eContracts Technical Committee]

* [http://www.ebxml.org ebXML.org].

* [http://www.fpml.org FPML].

*[http://cic.vtt.fi/projects/elegal/public.html eLEGAL].