Fast links: [[Secure eXchange Procotols|Main page,]] [[Current Needs|Current Needs,]] [[Getting Started|Getting Started.]]

==Hot topics==
* Understand [[Private Contract Signatures]].
* Polish the XML formats of [[Contracts]].

==Stages==
The foreseen stages of the project are: 
# Know what the protocols aim to achieve
# Formalize the required properties of the protocols
# Formalize the protocols with the required properties
# Launch the implementations of these protocols
# Produce the graphical interfaces to these implementations
# Play with it

==Status==

* Overall the project is at stage 1-2-3 depending on the subtheme. 
* The design the [[Secure Contract Signing Protocol|Secure Contract Signing protocol]] is at stage 3-4.
* The description of the XML formats of [[Contracts]] is at stage 3-4.

==Architecture==

* [[Secure Contract Signing Protocol|Protocols.]]
* [[Contracts|Contracts.]]

==Methodology==

===Top-down===
The design approach is top-down: we need to know what we want better and better, with increased precision, until the stage where knowing what we want means having it.

===Collaborative=== 
The other stages are entirely in the hands of the community that will develop the project. Notice that this is eased by the fact that until stage 6 is reached, no software development is needed. Hence everything can happen on this Website, or links to contributing papers, until then. This website as you may notice is a Wiki: we hope that its content will converge to a consensus reached by its contributors.

===Consensus-based=== 
A protocol is a common language. Hence it seems to be a good thing to elaborate it jointly. Since the protocols that come out of this project have to be secure against all sorts of attacks, and may eventually serve as a basis for an exchange-based economy, it is important that designers be warned of all foreseeable caveats. We believe that only a consensus-based design can provide this degree of awareness.