== Style of expected contributions ==
The SXP ideas naturally lead to interesting considerations in terms of the potential societal impact of such a system. These considerations are most welcome, so long as they do not prevent the technical progression of the project, which remains our main objective. Therefore such discussions will be contained to [[:Category:Discussion Pages|discussion pages]], dedicated to specific questions, and having specific formats, e.g. Pros and Cons as in [[Exclusive Money Based Economy|this page]]. The direct impact of such discussion pages will only be to help us take the right design decisions, on how to best conceive these protocols, whenever these technical decisions can help improve the Pros and limit the Cons, or help support future foreseen features.

Hence, contributors are expected to understand that the SXP protocol is essentially a generalization of current payment protocols, allowing anyone to exchange anything, anywhere and with anybody - in a secure way. And to believe that this is worth the shot. Moreover, contributors are expected to bring new questions and solutions in an ''orderly fashion'', towards the accomplishment of the project.

== Set up an account, subscribe to the newsletter ==

Do [[Special:UserLogin|Set up an account]] on this Wiki. Make it grow in an orderly fashion, contribute to the project with your own expertise.

Do [http://secure-exchange-protocols.org/newsletters/?p=subscribe subscribe] to our newsletter in order to be informed of the further developments and directions we are taking.

You can also get in touch [mailto:initiators *AT* secure-exchange-protocols *DOT* org here].

== How to edit a page? ==

Except for a handful of pages describing the overall aims of the project, any page can be edited by anyone. To do this, just click on the edit button at top of the page. 

If you are not sure how a wiki works, you can check out the [[http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Formatting| MediaWiki formatting guide]].