The Secure Contract Signing protocol of [[Main Page|SXP]] is a [[Protocols|Protocol]].

'''Current status: The version 1 protocol is defined.'''

== Aims of the protocol ==

To allow several parties to sign a contract securely.

What is meant by secure?
* ''Fairness''. No party should be left having sent his signature on the contract; but not having received that of the other parties.
* ''Timeliness''. At every point any party can decide to leave. If that happens either the entire exchange either gets aborted, or can be completed without this party.
* ''Abuse-freeness''. No party is not able produce to an external party a proof that the others were willing to sign the contract, which she aborted. 

Does it rely on a Trusted Third Party (TTP)?
* With an online TTP this could have been easily done; but this protocol also aims at avoiding a costly, central infrastructure.
* Without any form of TTP this would be impossible to achieve; some approximate methods exist, but do not seem that convincing.
* The protocol relies upon an offline TTP:
** when nothing goes wrong the contract gets signed without arbitration of the TTP. This is the optimistic case.
** when something goes wrong, a claim is sent to the TTP, who then steps in to ensure that either everyone, or no one, gets the contract signed. This is the non-optimistic case.

Which cryptographic primitive does it rely upon?
* Private Contract Signatures. 
* Constructed via non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs constructions.
* Based upon the DSS cryptography assumption.

== The Protocol ==

Conventions
  c is the contract
  P1...Pn are the parties having to sign c
  T is the TTP
  E_Pi(m) is P_i public key encryption on m
  S_Pi(m) is P_i's signature on m
  PCS_Pi(m,Pj,T)  is a private contract signature by party Pi for party Pj on message m than can be opened by T into S_Pi(m)
  Prom_i(k) is (PCSPi(c,P1,T),...,PCS_Pi(c,Pn,T),PCS_Pi((c,k),P1,T),...,PCS_Pi((c,k),Pn,T))
     except for Prom_i(n+1) which is S_Pi(c)
  Claim_i(k) is (PCS_P1(c,Pi,T),...,PCS_Pn(c,Pi,T),PCS_P1((c,k),Pi,T),...,PCS_Pn((c,k),Pi,T))
     except for Claim_i(0) which is "I wish to cancel c"
     and Claim_i(n+2) which is (S_P1(c),..,S_Pn(c))
  PossiblyHonestClaims is a list of Claims maintainted by T
  DishonestClaim_i(k) is either (Claim_i(k-1), Claim_j(k')) with k'>k, or (Claim_i(k-1), Claim_i(k')) with k'>k-1
  PossiblyDishonestClaims is a list of DishonestClaims maintainted by T
  HonestyToken is SP_T(PossiblyHonestClaims,DishonestClaims)
  AbortToken is SP_T("Aborted unless all PossiblyHonestsClaims become DishonestClaims", HonestyToken)
  ResolveToken is SP_T(Claim_i(n+2), HonestyToken)
  optimistic is set to true

Main_i :
  For k=1...n+2 :
     broadcast Prom_i(k)
     i awaits and checks until she forms Claim_i(k)
     failing that, Resolve_i(k) and _exit_ otherwise you may produce a DishonestClaim_i(k)!

Resolve_i(k):
  broadcast E_T(S_Pi(Claim_i(k-1)))
  i gets either ResolveToken
  or gets AbortToken
  _exit_ otherwise you may produce a DishonestClaim_i(k)!

ResolveT:
  Await and check S_Pi(Claim_i(k-1)).
  % j was dishonest and i shows it
  If PossiblyHonestClaims has some S_Pj(Claim_i(k')) with k'<k-2, then
     constitute DishonestClaim_j(k) into DishonestClaims, 
     remove j from PossiblyHonestClaims
     broadcast HonestyToken
 % i was dishonest and i shows it
  If i is in PossiblyHonestClaims or DishonestClaims already, and if this is no duplicate, then
     constitute DishonestClaim_i(k) into DishonestClaims, 
     remove i from PossiblyHonestClaims,
     optionally, broadcast HonestyToken 
     exit.
 %  i was dishonest and j shows it
  If PossiblyHonestClaims or DishonestClaims has some S_Pj(Claim_i(k')) with k'>k, then
     constitute DishonestClaim_i(k) into DishonestClaims, 
     remove i from PossiblyHonestClaims, 
     optionally, broadcast HonestyToken
     exit.
 % now the claim is possibly honest
 % intial, claim with promises, wins
  If (k>1 and PossiblyHonestsClaims is empty) or !optimistic, then
     set optimistic to false
     broadcast ResolveToken
     exit.
 % initial, claim without nothing, triggers the piling up of all further possibly honest claims with promises, unless these get overturned
  If (k==1 or PossiblyHonestsClaims is not empty) and optimistic, then
     add S_Pi(Claim_i(k-1)) to PossiblyHonestsClaims
     broadcast AbortToken
     exit.

== Why does the protocol accomplishes its aims? ==



First, here is how the security requirements impose themselves upon the TTP:
* At round 1<=k<=n+1 an honest player may send (1<=k<=n+1)-level promises but never get the other's back, and so timeliness demands that he is able to either cancel his (j<=k)-level promises, or to get his complete set of (k-1)-level promises opened by the TTP. He does this by sending the TTP a resolve request with a complete set of (k-1)-level promi
ses.
* If the TTP initially gets contacted by a player with a resolve request showing a complete set of (k-1>0)-level promises, then it is fair and timely for him to accept to open everything from now on: we fall back into the non-optimistic case forever.
* But if the TTP initially gets contacted by player i with a resolve request showing (k-1=0)-level promises, i.e. nothing, then by fairness the only thing he can do is to accept to cancel the player's (k=1)-level promises. Then player's claim gets added to the PossiblyHonestsClaims list.
* Say Player_i sent a complete set of (k-1>0)-level promises in a resolve request. Later, if the TTP gets contacted by a player with a resolve request showing a complete set of (k'>k+1)-level promises, it may deduce from them that Player_i's claim was dishonest, because is shows that Player_i has continued beyond round k. It follows that Player_i's claim can be safely removed from the PossiblyHonestsClaims list.
* The same is true if the complete k'-level promises got there first, or if Player_i does different requests at different rounds; then the Player_i 's claim is dishonest and can safely be ignored.  
* If the TTP gets contacted by Player_i with a resolve request showing (k-1>0)-level promises, and it follows from there that the PossiblyHonestsClaims list is emptied, then it is fair and timely for him to accept to open everything from now on: again we fall back into the non-optimistic case forever. This is an overturn.
* If the TTP gets contacted by Player_i with a resolve request showing (k-1>0)-level promises, but it does not follow from there that the PossiblyHonestsClaims list is emptied, then by fairness the only thing he can do is to accept to cancel the player's k-level promises. Then that player's claim gets added to the PossiblyHonestsClaims list.
* At round n+2 an honest player may send his cleartext signature but never get the other's back, and so fairness demands that he is always able to get his complete set of (n+1)-level promises opened by sending a resolve to the TTP. the TTP has to accept this, even if this means an overturn: we fall back into the non-optimistic case forever.

Second, notice that most these specifications are met just by construction, i.e they really describe the TTP's behaviour.
Except for the last two points which seem contradictory... unless it is the case that complete sets of (n+1)-level promises constitute proofs that any earlier claim is dishonest!
This seems to be the only thing we need to convince ourselves of.

Now, it is clear that a complete set of (n+1)-level promises sheds discredit on all complete set of (n-1)-level promises that the TTP may have received.
Hence the only way a possibly honest claim could remain, is if it is a complete set of n-level promises.
Similarly, it is clear this complete set of n-level promises had shed discredit on all complete set of (n-2)-level promises that the TTP may have received.
Hence the only way it could not have caused an overturn itself is if there was a complete set of (n-1)-level promises.
And so on. 
Basically for something wrong to happen at the (n+2)-level, there must have been complete sets of 0...n-level sent through resolve requests to the TTP, and accepted for cancellation, i.e. not causing overturns.
But this is impossible because there are only n-players, and the TTP is not OK with receiving two different claims from the same player.

== Directly relevant bibliography ==

[http://books.google.fr/books?hl=en&lr=&id=DUFqRPNqBrQC&oi=fnd&pg=PA365&dq=%22optimistic+fair%22&ots=HSsEcwYi5v&sig=d4Z6to7fQ06fl-OXlLkQKLIP8Cc#v=onepage&q=%22optimistic%20fair%22&f=false Review of optimistic fair exchange] by Asokan, Schunter, (2009).
'''Reviewed [[AsokanSchunter|here]].''' 
A great entry point to the topic of secure contract signing.

[http://www.cs.bham.ac.uk/~mdr/research/papers/pdf/07-fc07.pdf Improved multi-party contract signing] by Mukhamedov, Ryan (2007). 
'''Reviewed [[MukhamedovRyan|here]].'''
A must read in terms of using PCS, and in terms of proof structure.

[http://www.springerlink.com/content/ruf1079b2vgjmm1m/ Round-optimal and abuse-free optimistic multi-party contract signing] by Baum-Waidner, Waidner (2000).
'''Reviewed [[BaumwaidnerWaidner|here]].'''
A must read in terms of proof structure and communication structure.

[http://www.springerlink.com/content/evrjx3tdjgxj2pmp/ Abuse-free optimistic contract signing] by Garay, Jakobsson, MacKenzie (1999).
Comment on the usefulness of this paper to the project [[GarayJakobssonMackenzie|here]]. 
Introduces Private Contract Signatures.

== Related bibliography ==

[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?arnumber=5381051 An Optimistic Fair Protocol for Aggregate Exchange] by Liu (2009).
Comment on the usefulness of this paper to the project [[Liu|here]].

[http://www.springerlink.com/content/408876235155l787/ Payment Scheme for Multi-Party Cascading P2P Exchange] by Liu, Zhao, (2007).
Comment on the usefulness of this paper to the project [[LiuZhao|here]].

[http://www.springerlink.com/content/f301555p62357606/ Formal Analysis of Multiparty Contract Signing] by Chadha, Kremer, Scedrov (2006).
Comment on the usefulness of this thesis to the project [[ChadhaKremerScedrov|here]].

[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?arnumber=1428498 An exchange protocol for alternative currencies] by Hao,   Havey,  Turner, (2005).
Comment on the usefulness of this paper to the project [[HaoHaveyTurner|here]].

[http://www.springerlink.com/content/72552jg5jk322154/ An Optimistic Fair Protocol for P2P Chained Transaction] by Liu, Fu, Zhang, (2005).
Comment on the usefulness of this paper to the project [[LiuFuZhang|here]].

[http://www.springerlink.com/content/p3543433t71uh2n6/ A Fair and Reliable P2P E-Commerce Model Based on Collaboration with Distributed Peers] by Sur,  Jung, Yang, Rhee  (2005).
Comment on the usefulness of this paper to the project [[SurJungYangRhee|here]].

[http://www.springerlink.com/content/28b0t21f4e5fhfb9/ Optimistic Fair Exchange Based on Publicly Verifiable Secret Sharing] by Avoine, Vaudenay  (2004).
Comment on the usefulness of this paper to the project [[AvoineVaudenay|here]].

[http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.58.9931&rep=rep1&type=pdf Formal Analysis of Optimistic Fair Exchange Protocols] by Kremer, (2004).
Comment on the usefulness of this thesis to the project [[Kremer|here]].

[http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.66.4697 Verifiable Encryption of Digital Signatures and Applications] by Ateniese, (2004). For efficient Verifiable Escrows.
Comment on the usefulness of this paper to the project [[Ateniese|here]].

[http://www.hpl.hp.com/techreports/2002/HPL-2002-221.pdf Trusted computing platforms.] Pearson, ed. (2003) 
Comment on the usefulness of this paper to the project [[Pearson|here]]. Multi-party abuse-free contract signing. Asynchronous?

[http://www.springerlink.com/content/beq9v0d41wd7g462/ A multi-party optimistic non-repudiation protocol] by Markowitch, Kremer, (2001).
Comment on the usefulness of this paper to the project [[MarkowitchKremer|here]].

[http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.20.3562 Optimistic Synchronous Multi-Party Contract Signing] by Asokan, Baum-waidner, Schunter , Waidner (1998).
Comment on the usefulness of this paper to the project [[ABSW98|here]].

[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=674825&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fxpls%2Fabs_all.jsp%3Farnumber%3D674825 Efficient and practical fair exchange with offline TTP] by Bao, Deng, Mao, (1998)
Comment on the usefulness of this paper to the project [[BaoDengMao|here]]. Multi-party abuse-free contract signing. Asynchronous?

[http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.43.4716 Opimal efficiency of optimistic contract signing] by Pfitzmann, Schunter, Waidner (1998)
Comment on the usefulness of this paper to the project [[PfitzmannSchunterWaidner|here]]. Communication complexity.

[http://www.cs.unc.edu/~reiter/papers/1997/CCS1.pdf Fair exchange with a semi-trusted third party] by Franklin, Reiter, (1997).
Comment on the usefulness of this paper to the project [[FranklinReiter|here]]. Using peers as TTP.