'''A soft alternative to an exclusive money-based economy.'''

''(Project launched: 24th of April 2012.)''

Fast link: [[Private Contract Signatures | PCS]]

==In short==
''A project to create an open, ubiquitous, peer-to-peer, secure protocol suite for multi-party exchanges of contracts.''

The idea is that any of us can join together and create a virtual market, in which others can tell what they have to offer and what they need. The market, or anyone for that matter, can propose deals, whereby one person would give an item to another who gives an item to a third etc. If all parties concerned agree to a deal, the deal gets secured into an electronic contract, signed by the different parties.

Hence our motto could be: ''Securely exchange anything, anywhere, with anyone.''

==Why do this?==
This project is mainly technical. Yet, here are some motivations. An exclusive money-based economy is one where goods or services are systematically exchanged against one fixed notion of money, to the exclusion of all others or anything else. Exclusive money-based economy does seem quite natural to all of us. Yet, taking a step back, it has a few downsides: 

* A lack of this one money can cause exchanges, that would not otherwise be dependent on this money, to be halted.
* It is often unclear who produces this money and for what purpose. Nowadays, are Central Banks producing the money, or Private Banks?
* It is often unclear whether this money is distributed in any efficient way to start with, and the distribution is clearly difficult to change. 
* Having an exclusive notion of money triggers wealth cumulation behaviours, which sometimes are counter-productive.
* Having an exclusive notion of money favours deals in which the relative value of items is made uniform across large regions and populations. 

Of course no fixed notion of money is an absolute scale of people's merit, nor an absolute scale on which to measure all things. What is money, then? Money is an instrument for facilitating exchanges. Enforcing an exclusive money has both [[Exclusive Money Based Economy|advantages and disadvantages]]. We take the pragmatic view that whatever can be made in order to facilitate exchanges, is worth doing for the economy. 

There are a number of [[Related Projects|related projects]] seeking to address the above-mentioned downsides. The idea of going for Secure eXchange Protocols has been envisioned by others in the past, see [[Related Articles|related articles]]. Certainly, having such protocols implemented would come as handy in a number of [[Related Situations|situations]]. The aim of this project is to make these protocols a reality. [[Why Do This|More on why we should do this]].

==What is it?==

''Say Alice, Bob, and Charlie have access to different resources ''a'', ''b'', and ''c''. Say Alice wants ''b'', Bob wants ''c'' and Charlie wants ''a'', but they do not know each other, nor do they trust each other. Here ''a'', ''b'' and ''c'' can be anything, e.g ''a'' the ability to give maths lessons, ''b'' some barrel of beer, and ''c'' coins from a certain currency. Finally, say Alice, Bob and Charlie have an iPhone, Android, or whatever smart phone in their pockets. Using Secure eXchange Protocols on their smart phones, they should be able to quickly declare their resources and needs on virtual ad hoc markets, which in turn should detect and propose the obvious deal between them. If the three of them accept the deal, then an electronic contract will be secured, which is a formal proof of their agreement to perform the swap.''

Let us now explain what is meant by an open, ubiquitous, peer-to-peer, secure protocol suite for multi-party exchanges of contracts.

===Protocols===
A protocol is an agreed common language, and an agreed series of steps, designed in order to achieve some task, over the network. 
[[Protocols|More on protocols.]]

===Contracts===
An electronic contract is a legally binding document, electronically signed by the different parties, where the parties engage in doing or giving something in due time. Hence, being able to exchange contracts means being able to exchange anything from goods to services. A protocol will serve to settle a barter, a payment, or any combination of both.  
[[Contracts|More on contracts.]]

===Multi-party exchanges===
A clear disadvanatage of bartering versus paying is that in a barter, both parties must be interested in each others items, whereas in a payment, the vendor can take the money and spend it, later, on some other item. Here we will avoid this downside by: allowing all sorts of moneys; allowing exchanges between many parties at the same time; facilitating further exchanges of newly acquired items. This way contracts do not have to be between or depend upon just two participants, they can involve several transactions that are interdependent, such as a chain. 
[[Chains|More on chains.]]

====Markets====
In the real world shops or markets have several beneficial roles: they facilitate offer/demand encounter, they secure the producer/consumer exchange, they guarantee the quality of the items, they generate [[Raising Taxes|VAT]] for the good functioning of states. The protocols will allow for virtual counterparts of these markets, accomplishing just the same purposes. 
[[Markets|More on markets.]]

====Deals====
Part of the diffucilty is to compute possible multi-party exchange chains, also referred to as deals. The protocol will promote openness for facilitating the computation of the best possible deals within a market. Moreover since they will run the same protocols, markets will be interoperable. Hence cross-market exchanges will often happen.  
[[Deals|More on deals]].

===Peer-to-peer===
SXP protocols should run in the most decentralized manner as possible, allowing for ad hoc exchanges, market creation, deal exploration under dynamical, reconfigurable scenarios. For instance, an electronic signature is what identifies a market, not its IP address, which may change. This is for the sake of resiliency and monopoly avoidance.

===Ubiquitous===
SXP protocols should be able to run on smart phones.

===Open===
The SXP Wiki is under Creative Commons license. The developed SXP software will be under GPLv3 licence.

===Secure===
SXP protocols should make sure that contracts are only signed if all parties are willing to sign, that signatures are synchronous in a way, that they cannot be forged, that contracts themselves cannot be forged...

== What is it ''not''? ==

The scope of the SXP project is restricted to designing and implementing Secure eXchange Protocols. The following are potential uses of such protocols, in increasing orders of magnitude, and decreasing likelihood:

* Secure multi-party contracts. Thus, [[Broken Contract|in case one breaks the contract]], another can prove that the contract has been established. Still, for this to be of some effect, one needs a guarantee policy, an insurance policy, a trust system, or even a judiciary system that are willing to back up the contract... These may be provided by the virtual markets or via a wider legal context. But SXP does not promote any such policies or systems in particular.  
* Create virtual markets. Those may look like the merchant sites, second-hand sites, barter sites, gift economy sites that we [[Related Trading Sites|already know of]]... or novel, unexpected, ad hoc virtual markets. But SXP does not promote any such sites or markets in particular.
* Witness the rise of novel currencies. Having a fast and secure way to exchange items may ease the appearance of novel forms of moneys such as those proposed in [[Related Projects|related projects]]. But SXP does not promote any such scheme in particular.
* Help suggest improved economic systems. Solidarity and ecology are natural aims, and there should be some [[Raising Taxes|ways of raising taxes]] on the virtual markets. But SXP does not promote any such vision or method in particular.  

The reason for this apparent neutrality of the project is its ''technicality'' and its ''generality''. In the same way that your browser's http protocol is not bound to any website in particular, SXP protocols should not be bound to any potential use. Since part of the aesthetics of the project is to fully generalize payment methods; we are fully aware that trying to enforce a particular use will immediately lead to a fork.

==Who are we?==
See our [[Authors|Hall of Fame]].

==Stages==
The foreseen stages of the project are: 
# Know what the protocols aim to achieve
# Know very precisely what the protocols will achieve
# Formalize the required properties of the protocols
# Formalize candidate protocols 
# Prove the protocols have the required properties
# Launch the implementations of these protocols
# Produce the graphical interfaces to these implementations
# Play with it
The initiators' main role is to ensure that these original aims will not be altered in the course of the project. Stage 1 is the only non-negociable part of this project.

==Status==

Mostly the project is at stage 1: we know the aims of this project. 
Some subtasks are more advanced, for instance:
* The design the [[Secure Contract Signing Protocol|Secure Contract Signing protocol]] is stage 4.

The next tasks belong to stage 2, which is still very much a research stage. Here are some of the most obvious tasks:
* Understand [[Private Contract Signatures]].
* Describe the XML format of [[Contracts]].

==Methodology==

===Top-down===
The design approach is top-down: we need to know what we want better and better, with increased precision, until the stage where knowing what we want means having it.

===Collaborative=== 
The other stages are entirely in the hands of the community that will develop the project. Notice that this is eased by the fact that until stage 6 is reached, no software development is needed. Hence everything can happen on this Website, or links to contributing papers, until then. This website as you may notice is a Wiki: we hope that its content will converge to a consensus reached by its contributors.

===Consensus-based=== 
A protocol is a common language. Hence it seems to be a good thing to elaborate it jointly. Since the protocols that come out of this project have to be secure against all sorts of attacks, and may eventually serve as a basis for an exchange-based economy, it is important that designers be warned of all foreseeable caveats. We believe that only a consensus-based design can provide this degree of awareness.

==Current needs==
We call on:
* Security protocol experts, peer-to-peer protocol experts, to help us design the protocols
* Programmers in general
* Economists to help us refine the [[:Category:Discussion Pages|discussions]], which may help us to take some design decisions
* Infographists, publicists to help put these ideas forward in a clear manner, perhaps in small cartoon/video 
* All good wills, to do whatever they understood might be useful

==Getting started==
Contributing to this project means setting up an account on this Wiki, and making this website grow in an orderly fashion, by bringing in your own expertise. Here are some more informations about [[Getting Started]]. You can also [http://secure-exchange-protocols.org/newsletters/?p=subscribe subscribe] to our newsletter in order to be informed of the further developments of SXP. You can also get in touch [mailto:initiators*AT*secure-exchange-protocols*DOT*org here].

==Questions that bother us==
''Say that mankind had all these mobile phones, PDAs etc., but suddenly forgot all about money. Say that all of its trades were taking place via some advanced, decentralized, electronic bartering system... Would one of the resources being exchanged re-emerge as an exclusive money, i.e. serve for wealth cumulation and participate in all deals? Would mankind trust pieces of paper back again? Or would more dynamic, blended and local currencies start to emerge? Is there a good theory of emergence of moneys in distributed, decentralized economies?'' More on [[Questions_That_Bother_Us|these questions]].