This page describes the technichal information about the SXP Contract Definition, which is an extension of OASIS Legal XML eContracts.

For validating SXP contracts, users must [https://docs.google.com/file/d/0B4JKZAq0izyxTFl4b0dZX1FXRUk/edit?usp=sharing download the SXP Contract Schema] and the [http://docs.oasis-open.org/legalxml-econtracts/CS01/eContracts-v1.0-cs01.zipLegal XML eContracts Schema]. Then, contracts can be validated using a XML validator.

== Required clauses ==

These are the clauses that the user must fill in for creating a SXP Contract:

*'''Parties'''. We use the ''party'' element from the eContracts Specification. The only changes are:
-the own element has been set as mandatory (it was optional at eContracts)
-the ''id'' attribute has been set as mandatory as well, so we can refer to a certain party in future clauses.

Problems:
-should we extend it by specifying the country of each party, in order to use this information
at the following clauses (see conflict resolution mode at breachClause?

-should we constraint more in any way? E.g. forcing the user to fill ''name'', ''address'', etc (currently this are optional 
values at eContracts).


*'''Breach clause'''. A clause that specifies what happens in case of one party doesn't accomplish the contract. It has the following structure:
** Conflict Resolution Mode (mandatory).
***exchange-level mode. Conflicts are resolved between the parties who needed to exchange items within the contract. These are the possibilities:
****defendant country. Complaints are presented at the court of the defendant party's country
****plaintive country. Complaints are presented at the court of the plaintitive party's country
****fixed country. Complaints are presented at the court of a given country
***contract-level mode. Even local conflicts are resolved by all parties. 
** Trust Rating Adjustements (optional). Information about the adjustements that will be done on the SXP trust rating system.


*'''SXP Item clause'''. An unbounded number of sequence of the following
**SXP Item. A reference to the [[Items Specification |SXP Item]] that will be exchanged. This reference will be done under the [[Items Specification]]. 
**Delivery instructions. Delivery information associated to the previous item:
*** Party Provider. A unique reference (see xsd:IDREF) to a ''party'' id from above.
*** Party Receiver.
*** Date. By when the item will be delivered.
*** Person responsible. By who the delivery will be made. It may be a id reference to a party.
*** Payer. Who will pay the delivery. It may be a id reference to a party.

== Optional clauses ==

*'''VAT clause'''. Information about the value-added taxes involved in the exchange.
** the amount
** the authority who will receive the taxes
** the parties responsibles of paying

*'''Other Clauses'''. Basically, users can add as many clauses as they want as ''items'' (do not confuse with the [[Items Specification]], which describes objects and services), under the ''body'' level. These clauses are intended to contain text that can be read by both parties. These particular clauses are original from the Legal XML eContracts framework. For more information, see the eContracts Specification.

== XML Namespace ==

Since SXPContract contains a redefinition (<xs:redefine>) on the ''body'' element from the eContracts schema, we have to keep the same target namespace from eContracts (urn:oasis:names:tc:eContracts:1:0) in our specification.

Explanation of xs:redefine : [http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-0/#Redefine W3C's XML Schema Part 0: Primer Second Edition]).

== Minimal example of a SXP Contract==

In this example, we have two parties (Alice and Bob) exchanging objects (a laptop and a guitar).

  <?xml version="1.0"?>
  <contract xmlns="urn:oasis:names:tc:eContracts:1:0"
  xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
  xmlns:sxp="http://secure-exchange-protocols.org/index.php?title=SXP_Contract"
  xsi:schemaLocation="urn:oasis:names:tc:eContracts:1:0 SXPContract.xsd">
  <title><text>Contract between Alice and Bob</text></title>
  
  <contract-front>
    <date-block>22/1/2013</date-block>
    <parties>
      <party id="aliceID">Alice</party>
      <party id="bobID">Bob</party>
    </parties>
    
  </contract-front>
  
  <body>
  
  <breachClause>
    <conflictResolutionMode>
      <exchange-level>
        <defendantCountry/>
      </exchange-level>
    </conflictResolutionMode>
  </breachClause>
  
  
  <SXPItemClause>
    
    <!-- Object #1 -->
    <SXPItem > 
      <ItemDescription>
        <Title>Guitar</Title>
      </ItemDescription>
      
      <ItemCategory>
        <MusicalInstruments/>
      </ItemCategory>
    </SXPItem>
    
    <deliveryInformation>
      
      <responsible>Caroline</responsible>
      <date>2013-04-30</date>
      <payer><partyRef>aliceID</partyRef></payer>
      <partyProvider>aliceID</partyProvider>
      <partyReceiver>bobID</partyReceiver>
      
    </deliveryInformation>
    
    <!-- Object #2 -->
    <SXPItem > 
      <ItemDescription>
          <Title>Laptop</Title>
       </ItemDescription>
      <ItemCategory>
        <Computers/>
      </ItemCategory>
    </SXPItem>
    
    <deliveryInformation>
      <responsible>
        Daniel
      </responsible>
      
      <date>2013-04-25</date>
      
      <payer>
        <person-record>Caroline</person-record>
      </payer>
      
      <partyProvider>bobID</partyProvider>
      <partyReceiver>aliceID</partyReceiver>
    </deliveryInformation>
    
    
  </SXPItemClause>
    
  
  <vatClause>
  <vatAmount> 1.40€ </vatAmount>
  <responsible> <partyRef>bobID</partyRef> </responsible>
  <authority> France Revenue Service </authority>
  </vatClause>
  
  
  </body>

  </contract>