[[Category:Technical Glossary]] 

== What is XML? ==
XML is a tunable tag language for describing things in a hierarchical, formatted manner. For instance HTML, the language of all webpages, is a tuned version of XML.

XML is not particularly elegant, but it has become a standard. As a consequence:
* there are many tools around for manipulating XML.
* there may already by some tuned versions of XML for specifying  [[Items Specification|items]] and [[Contracts Specification|contracts]], which is what we want.
* once GUIs will be developed none will have to see the underlying XML.

== Basic Structure ==

*'''Tags'''. The information in an XML file is stored inside tags. Tags are not predefined in XML: users must define their own ones.

*'''Elements'''. An XML element is everything from (including) the element's start tag to (including) the element's end tag.

*'''Attributes'''. An attribute is some extra information, provided at the start tag in quotation marks. They are intended to be metadata (data about data).

Here is an example of an .xml file:

     <?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1"?>
     <note id=“1245”>
          <to>Tove</to>
          <from>Jani</from>
          <heading>Reminder</heading>
          <body>Don't forget me this weekend!</body>
     </note>

In the example, ''note'' is an element and ''id'' is an attribute.

== Defining XML structures ==
In XML, it is possible to define structures. Then, we can verify if a given xml file matches with this structure. For example, we can define a ''Contract'' and verify that a given file created by a user has a valid structure, according to the file that we have defined. We call this proccess ''Validation''.

This definitions are made in external files. There are different documents to accomplish that:
*DTD (Document Type Definition).
*XSD (XML Schemas). Schemas are the most used way to the define a XML structure.
*Relax NG files.

== Normalization organisms==
There are many organisms that define protocols, schemas based on XML. Here there are some of the most importants:
*W3C. International consortium that produces standards for the world wide web. They defined XML specifiacation in the first place.
*ISO. Organization that promotes worldwide proprietary, industrial, and commercial standards.
*OASIS. Global consortium that drives the development, convergence, and adoption of e-business and web service standards.
*IANA.

== More content of XML ==
Here are the obvious pages about XML:
* [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XML|XML on Wikipedia]
* [http://www.w3schools.com/xml/ XML tutorial at w3schools]