This project is at its early stages. We need all the help we can get, see our [[Current Needs|Current Needs]] and the [[Development Portal|Development Portal]] of the project. 

In practice, contributing to this project means setting up an account on this Wiki, and making this website grow in an orderly fashion, by bringing in your own expertise. Here are some more informations about [[Getting Started]]. You can also [http://secure-exchange-protocols.org/newsletters/?p=subscribe subscribe] to our newsletter in order to be informed of the further developments of SXP. 

== How-To: set up an account, subscribe to the newsletter, get in touch ==

Do [[Special:UserLogin|Set up an account]] on this Wiki. Make it grow in an orderly fashion, contribute to the project with your own expertise.

Do [http://secure-exchange-protocols.org/newsletters/?p=subscribe subscribe] to our newsletter in order to be informed of the further developments and directions we are taking.

Do also get in touch [mailto:initiators*AT*secure-exchange-protocols*DOT*org here].

== How-To edit a page? ==

Except for a handful of pages describing the overall aims of the project, any page can be edited by anyone. To do this, just click on the edit button at top of the page. 

If you are not sure how a wiki works, you can check out the [[http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Formatting| MediaWiki formatting guide]].

== Style of expected contributions ==

The main focus of the SXP Wiki is to make progress towards conceiving and realizing the SXP protocols.

But the SXP ideas naturally lead to interesting considerations in terms of the potential societal impact of such a system. These considerations are most welcome in the [[:Category:Discussion Pages|discussion pages]], dedicated to specific questions, sometimes with specific formats, e.g. Pros and Cons as in [[Exclusive Money Based Economy|this page]]. The direct impact of such discussion pages will only be to help us take the right design decisions, on how to best conceive these protocols, whenever these technical decisions can help improve the Pros and limit the Cons, or help support future foreseen features.

Generally speaking, contributors are expected to understand that the SXP protocol is essentially a generalization of current payment protocols, allowing anyone to exchange anything, anywhere and with anybody - in a secure way. And to believe that this is worth the shot. They are expected to bring new questions and solutions in an ''orderly fashion'', towards the accomplishment of the project.